For this assignment, I changed myself so that I would be able to make my own program that would run differently compared to what all the other people did. To help me in the assignment, I had a little research on how API’s work but oi didn’t even understand most of the words that were being thrown at me. Then decided to do a project that would work with words that relate do words that I would mention. For my inspiration, I looked at artists like Bruce Neuman, Lawrence Weiner and Mel Bochner who are people well known for their use of words to make good arguments and masterpeices. There are many more artists who use the same methods ,but these stood out to me for this assignment because they made their work quite colourful even though it was just a few words that were being used. For me to make the project, I learnt how to use API’s, API keys and how to specify searches for when you want to get certain results, this allowed me to be able to know what my data would look like if it was if it was shown on a web browser. The data that I would get would just come as words with no design, which allowed me to be able to apply my skills from my last assignment on doing data visualisations. I didn’t want to just keep it basic so I tried to add things like colour on the canvas eventually I didn’t really manage to understand how I can make all the functions to be able to happen inside the canvas.. To use the project is very easy because it is very much straight forward, you just have type in the word that you want to search in the coding open the source on the web browser, after that you just have to click on the word and it will just generate a word after clicking on it that relates to the word before allowing you to be able to learn more and more words which pretty much mean the same thing in all.
To make the program, it was quite challenging task because this was something I had never before, the main problem that I really had for the program was understanding how to apply everything to the same project as it wasn’t allowing me to design some of the areas and didn’t understand most of the JSON information. Eventually, I got it and made little changes. For the future, when I understand more about what I am doing, I would like to add more colour to the program as this will keep it not basic but also manage to help give more visualisation and functionality to the project. This will be able to make the program more interactive and really nice to use for anyone.
References: these are some of the websites that helped me to be able to do this project and also gave me idea on how this whole project would work.
https://jsbin.com/?js,output
https://www.wordnik.com/words/sun#relate
https://p5js.org/examples/

GitHub website link:

# Assignment-2
this s all the work for assignment 2
